Hello and welcome back to a new week on
image and video processing.
The topic of this week is medical
imaging.
Medical imaging is a fascinating area.
The challenges are incredible and so are
the rewards.
When we solve problems in medical
imaging, we are basically helping
humanity and that's a great reward.
Now, medical imaging is very, very
different than many other areas of image
processing.
One of the differences is that very
often, we start the investigation, we
started working medical imaging with a
problem presented to us.
Let's see a couple of examples of that.
Here, we see images of skin.
Basically, just regular pictures of the
skin with potential lesions, potential
cancer lesions.
So, maybe a doctor knocks the door in our
office and says, could you please help
me?
What I need to do is I need to
automatically segment out the lesion.
I want to measure it.
I want to measure its area.
I want to measure some of its
characteristics inside and sometimes I
even want to track it.
I want the patient to come again, let's
say, after a year or after a few months
or after a certain period and control how
that lesion, how that region is changing.
but the problem is very specific.
So, you think, and you say, I know I have
learned how to do image segmentation.
One of those techniques is active
contours.
So, you can start with the contour and
you can let that curve deform towards the
boundary of the object,
this yellow curve, and all these three
images were actually segmented out with
active contours.
You might think, oh, but this image is
actually extremely noisy.
These are hertz.
But these hertz are, from the point of
view of image processing, noise.
But you also know, know how to do image
denoising.
So maybe before you apply active
contours, you basically do image
denoising.
So, this is a very important application.
And a particular example where we are
applying our knowledge in image
processing to a particular problem.
Let's see another example.
Here is another example in the area of
cystic fibrosis.
And without going into too many details,
this is a patch that is basically put on
the skin and it basically measures the
amount of sweat and the concentration of
chloride in the sweat.
And the basic idea, the challenge here is
to detect this curve and detect this
curve and compute the ratio of the areas
that are inside this curve and inside
this curve.
So, once again, the scenario is that a
doctor knocks your door and asks you,
explains to you the problem, and asks you
a particular question.
And says, you need to detect this curve
and you need to detect this curve for me.
Once we detect the curves, we can compute
the area and that area gives us
information about the concentration of
chloride in the sweat.
So, you think for a while and you say,
this curve looks very elliptical to me.
Can I assume that that's an ellipse or a
circle? You ask the doctor, this is a
process of communication between two
different disciplines.
If the answer is yes, you say, I know how
to detect those type of curves, they're
half transformed, the half transformed is
great to detect parametric curves.
So, you apply a half transform not to the
image but to the edges of the image and
you get this curve, perfect.
Now, this is non-parametric so you can
either apply active contours or you can
try obtuse threshold algorithm to see if
you can get this region.
Once you get this region, you compute the
ratio of areas and you have solved an
extremely important problem.
Now often, in medical imaging, we don't
really attack problems like these ones
that I just mentioned,
but we basically address basic research
issues with data that comes from medical
data or biological data.
An example of that is here.
These are basically surfaces that
represent the gray matter in our brain.
In the brain of the subject that went
into an MRI scanner.
And here, we see what are called the
sulci.
So basically, our brain, our gray matter
is folded.
And these are basically the bottom of the
folds.
And from, for many reasons in
neuroscience, these curves are extremely
important.
So, here is a challenge for image
processing in 3 dimensions,
how to automatically compute these sulci
curves not for a particular medical
problem, or medical application, but for
a basic research, basic science, basic
neuroscience question.
Once you compute these, you can create
very interesting networks of these sulci,
which again, have a very important
neuroscience problem,
is a very important information for many
neuroscience applications.
Some of them actually related to
particular problems, but some of them are
related to research.
So, these are just some examples of
medical imaging.
We're going to see much more in the next
videos.
But one of the fascinating areas of
medical imaging is that it's a constant
learning experience.
This is not done just by people that are
experts in image processing,
you have to work very close with doctors,
with people in Biology, with
neuroscientists, with people that
basically have the medical imaging
challenges, and that basically forces you
to learn new problems all the time, and
forces them to learn new techniques, and
basically forces both groups to work
close with each other,
which actually is a lot of fun because as
I say, it's a constant learning
experiance.
I'm going to try to teach you some of the
challeges in medical imaging.
It's a huge area so I'm going to pick a
few examples in the next videos to
illustrate some of the problems, some of
the challenges, and some of the rewards
when you work in medical imaging.
See you in the next videos.
Thank you very much.